Update existing Neo3-boa tutorial on Neo website (#1)
CityOfZion/neo-dev-portal: tutorials/2023-07-05-neo3-boa-writing-a-fungible-token-contract-using-python/index.md

- `coin.manifest.json`: The contract manifest file. This file is required to deploy the contract and is automatically
generated by the compiler alongside the nef.
- `coin.nefdbgnfo`: The debug information file. This file is required by the Neo Blockchain Toolkit to debug the contract.

## 5. Running the contract using the Neo Blockchain Toolkit

Click on the `.nef` or `.manifest.json` generated file and press `Ctrl+Shift+D` to open the Run and Debug panel.
Click on `create a launch.json file` and select `Neo Contract` as the environment.

This will generate a `.vscode/launch.json` file inside the project folder. Open the file and replace the `operation`
field value with `totalSupply`:

```json
...
"invocation": {
    "operation": "totalSupply",
    "args": []
}
...
```

Next, press `F5` to start debugging. The Neo Blockchain Toolkit will automatically deploy the contract and invoke the
`totalSupply` method in a test environment.

Debugging the `totalSupply` method will not be very useful, but it's a good way to test if your environment is working
properly. After debugging, you should get a message on the debug console showing the GAS consumed and the return value of the method.

> ## 6. Before adding the NEP-17 methods

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 6. Contract Initialization
```

Neo has some methods that are automatically called by the Virtual Machine, for example, there is the `_deploy` method
that is called whenever a contract is deployed or updated, and is often used in all kinds of smart contracts. This can
be useful to set up some information on the storage.

### _deploy

We will be using this method to initialize the contract storage, giving all tokens to the one who deployed the smart

> contract. To do so, we will be using the `runtime.script_container` object and `Transaction` class to get the script

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contract. To do so, we will be using the `runtime.script_container` to get the script
```

> hash of the sender and the `storage.put` method to change the storage, using the deployer script hash as the key and the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hash of the sender.

And then, save it as the owner of the whole total supply on the storage, using the method `storage.put`. Our strategy is to have the owner as the key and the quantity as the value of the storage.
```

from boa3.builtin.contract import Nep17TransferEvent
from boa3.builtin.interop import runtime, storage
from boa3.builtin.interop.blockchain import Transaction

@public
def _deploy(data: Any, update: bool):
    # if the contract is being deployed for the first time, add all tokens to the contract deployer
    if not update:
        container: Transaction = runtime.script_container
        storage.put(container.sender, total_supply())

        # trigger the Transfer event to notify that the tokens were minted, check out the `NEP-17 Event` section below for more details
        Nep17TransferEvent(None, container.sender, total_supply())
```

Methods that start with an underscore are not callable by the user. In this example, the `_deploy` method is called
automatically when the contract is deployed.

## 7. NEP-17 Methods

Since Neo's first supported languages were C#, VB.Net, F#, Java, and Kotlin, the naming convention of the Neo standards
methods is not snake_case. However, Neo3-boa allows you to use snake_case methods as long as you add the `name`
parameter to the `public` decorator when necessary. You'll also need to add the `safe=True` parameter on read-only

> methods to indicate that the method won't change the contract storage and can be safely called by other contracts.

Reviewer: Acho melhor remover essa "introdução" de naming convention e safe=True. Vamos falar o mais importante antes. Deixar o usuário notar essa estranhesa no código primeiro e logo abaixo falar desse detalhe.

The NEP-17 standard defines 5 mandatory methods that a token contract must implement:

### symbol

Returns the token symbol. In this example, we will return the string `COIN`. Since the string `symbol` is the same on
snake_case and camelCase, we don't need to add the `name` parameter.

```python
# update coin.py adding the following code:

@public(safe=True)
def symbol() -> str:
    return "COIN"

> ```

Reviewer: Aqui sim, aqui embaixo do primeiro uso de safe=True podemos falar brevemente sobre isso.

### decimals

Returns the number of decimals used by the token.
This is used to provide decimal precision when displaying token balances because Neo doesn't support floating types as
they are often unreliable. In this example, we will return **2**.

```python
# update coin.py adding the following code:

@public(safe=True)
def decimals() -> int:
    return 2
```

### totalSupply

Returns the total supply of the token. We already implemented this method before, but, since we just defined that there will be
2 decimals, we need to multiply the supply by 10 ** 2.

```python
# update coin.py adding the following code:

@public(name='totalSupply', safe=True)
def total_supply() -> int:
    return (10 ** 8) * 10 ** decimals()

> ```

Reviewer: Aqui embaixo podemos falar da naming convention, bem brevemente.

    assert amount >= 0

    tokens_sender = balance_of(from_address)
    tokens_receiver = balance_of(to_address)

    # to transfer tokens, the sender must be authenticated. 
    # We will use the `check_witness` method to verify that the sender is the owner of the tokens.
    if not runtime.check_witness(from_address):
        return False

    if tokens_sender < amount:
        return False

    # if `amount` is 0 or the sender is also the receiver, there is no need to change the storage
    if amount != 0 and from_address != to_address:
        # use the `storage.put` method to change the storage
        storage.put(from_address, type_helper.to_bytes(tokens_sender - amount))
        storage.put(to_address, type_helper.to_bytes(tokens_receiver + amount))
    
    # if the method succeeds, it must fire the Transfer event (more details in the next section)
    Nep17TransferEvent(from_address, to_address, amount)
    # if the to_address is a smart contract, it must call the onNEP17Payment
    if blockchain.get_contract(to_address) is not None:
        contract.call_contract(to_address, 'onNEP17Payment', [from_address, amount, data])

    return True

> ```

Reviewer: Aqui embaixo acho que podemos deixar um textinho mostrando que não estamos usando o Safe=true pq estamos modificando o storage

on_nep17_transfer(from_address, to_address, amount)
```

## 9. NEP-17 Callbacks

The NEP-17 standard defines a single callback called `onNEP17Payment` that must be called if the recipient is a contract.
This callback is used to notify the recipient that it has received tokens. It's up to the recipient to implement this
callback. The recipient can reject the transfer by raising an exception.

```python
# update coin.py adding the following code:
from boa3.builtin.contract import abort

@public(name='onNEP17Payment')
def on_nep17_payment(from_address: UInt160, amount: int, data: Any):
    abort()     # in this example, the smart contract is rejecting all transfers made to it
```

## 10. Manifest Metadata

Neo3-boa allows you to define the contract metadata using the `metadata` decorator. This information is used to generate
the contract manifest file.

In our example, we will define the contract name and the supported standards, but you can add any information you want
to. We are also adding permissions to allow our contract to call the `onNEP17Payment` method. The compiler automatically
does this step, but it's a good practice to define the permissions in the contract code.

> > You should add this method at the beginning of your file, before any other method.

Reviewer: É obrigatório ficar em cima do arquivo ou é só convenção? Se for convenção é bom falar explicitamente q é convenção, se não for convenção acho q precisamos deixar mais forte essa mensagem (e cogitar mudar no neoboa)

```python
from boa3.builtin.compile_time import metadata, NeoMetadata

@metadata
def manifest_metadata() -> NeoMetadata:
    meta = NeoMetadata()
    meta.name = 'Coin Contract'
    meta.supported_standards = ['NEP-17']
    meta.add_permission(methods=['onNEP17Payment'])
    return meta
```

## 11. Other examples

> Check out this [simple NEP-17](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo3-boa/blob/master/boa3_test/examples/simple_nep17.py)
> example to see a smart contract that is as simple as the one in this example, but is more cohesive and uses some more
> features in its implementation.
> 
> Also, check out this [more complex NEP-17](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo3-boa/blob/master/boa3_test/examples/nep17.py)
> example to examine a smart contract that can also mint and burn tokens.

Reviewer 2: since the tutorial uses v1.0.0, it would be good to link to the tag version, since master may be updated (and then be incompatible with the current tutorial)
```suggestion
Check out this [simple NEP-17](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo3-boa/blob/v1.0.0/boa3_test/examples/simple_nep17.py)
example to see a smart contract that is as simple as the one in this example, but is more cohesive and uses some more
features in its implementation.

Also, check out this [more complex NEP-17](https://github.com/CityOfZion/neo3-boa/blob/v1.0.0/boa3_test/examples/nep17.py)
example to examine a smart contract that can also mint and burn tokens.
```

Note: the links currently don't exist since the release is not up yet
